Overview:

The purpose of this project was to exam how we the students think, identify our level of proficiency and our ability to research concepts and implement them in a project.

We had two projects:

Project One involved taking a bit of our teacher's app and modifying the input field to allow for a user to submit items to be added to the html via pressing enter while typing.

Project Two involved creating a quiz game in which we had to:
  Bring in data with an ajax call to bring data in.
  Implement drag and drop functionality.
  Implement an undo button.
  Time how long the test takes.
  And calculate score

Constraints:

None of the students were allowed to use external libraries or frameworks. We could only use the framework provided by  the teacher.

Extra Points
  Have the game go up to at least 5 rounds

Background
  I am a full stack developer with about 4 months of experience with HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. I have not used these skills in a nearly a year, and most of my previous training used JQuery and CSS Bootstrap.

  Considering the time constraints of the assignment. I attempted to break down most of the smaller pieces of code that needed to be completed down into smaller conceptual bits. I often wrote down my process and later implemented them. In some cases I created a proof of concept piece.

Potential Improvements
  I wish I had made my own front end. I instead defaulted to the template provided. It was not a wrong decision (as it helped to speed up work), but I would have preferred to experiment with it on my own, but that would have taken too much time.

  I've got comment out code that should have been eliminated after finishing. But it is nearly 3 am in the morning right now.

  I Would also have created more POCs to better break down the functionality and have reusable code for later.

  I also should have take time to learn the framework provided. I only did some minor tinkering adding a method for generating random numbers with in a range I decide.


Conclusion

  This project was fun, but a valuable lesson was learned. My bullish nature of staying too focused on a task needs to reigned in. I noticed times of my most explosive progress occurred when I used POC to prove concepts and modify code to fit what I needed.

  I also feel more confident with manipulating the front end. Before I was always cautious about working with the front end because the means of containing data are more abstracted to the page as opposed to a JSON format. DOM manipulation feels much more natural.

  
